PRODUCTION_READY.md, before:

# PowerSense Home - Production Deployment Guide

## ✅ Application Status: READY FOR DEPLOYMENT

All code is committed and pushed. Both Vercel and Render will auto-deploy.

---

## 🚀 Quick Start After Deployment

### 1. Backend Setup (Render)

The backend will start automatically. After deployment, **run the seeding script once** to create tables and seed tariff data:

**In Render Dashboard:**
1. Go to your service: `eb-bill-lkcc`
2. Click "Shell" tab
3. Run: `npm run seed`

This will:
- Create all 8 tables with `ps_` prefix
- Seed TNEB tariff slabs
- Safe to run multiple times (won't duplicate tariffs)

**Important Render Environment Variables:**
```env
NODE_ENV=production
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://ai_mediation_db_user:3GxEODPhlgSeMDvM2heokGW6S4P2lON3@dpg-d5l1rakoud1c73e3kdeg-a.oregon-postgres.render.com/ai_mediation_db
REDIS_URL=redis://red-d5li359r0fns73eb4na0:6379
CLIENT_URL=https://eb-bill-virid.vercel.app
JWT_SECRET=PowerSense2024SecretKey123!
JWT_EXPIRES_IN=7d
```

### 2. Frontend (Vercel)

Automatic deployment. No manual steps needed.

---

## 🗄️ Database Tables (with ps_ prefix)

All tables are prefixed to avoid conflicts with your other project:

- `ps_users` - User authentication
- `ps_homes` - Home configurations
- `ps_rooms` - Room details
- `ps_appliances` - Appliance instances
- `ps_appliance_usage_logs` - Usage tracking
- `ps_meter_readings` - Manual meter readings
- `ps_billing_cycles` - Billing periods
- `ps_tariff_slabs` - TNEB pricing (6 slabs)

---

## 🧪 Test the Application

### 1. Test Backend Health
```bash
curl https://eb-bill-lkcc.onrender.com
```

Expected response:
```json
{
  "message": "PowerSense Home API",
  "status": "running",
  "version": "1.0.0"
}
```

### 2. Test Frontend
Visit: https://eb-bill-virid.vercel.app

### 3. Complete User Flow
1. **Sign Up** (email + password)
2. **Setup Wizard** (3 steps: home → rooms → appliances)
3. **Dashboard** (toggle appliances, see live stats)
4. **Insights** (top consumers, recommendations)
5. **Meter Reading** (submit reading, view history)
6. **Bill Breakdown** (slab-wise calculation)

---

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### If Backend Shows Error
**Check logs in Render:**
- Database connection: Verify `DATABASE_URL` is complete
- Redis connection: Verify `REDIS_URL` is correct
- CORS: Verify `CLIENT_URL` matches Vercel URL

### If Tables Don't Exist
Run the seed script:
```bash
npm run seed
```

### If Frontend Can't Connect
- Check `VITE_API_URL` in Vercel environment variables
- Should be: `https://eb-bill-lkcc.onrender.com`

---

## 📊 Features Overview

| Feature | Status | Description |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| Authentication | ✅ | Email/password with JWT|
| Setup Wizard | ✅ | 3-step home configuration |
| Real-Time Dashboard | ✅ | Live stats, appliance controls |
| Consumption Tracking | ✅ | Auto-calculates from toggles |
| Bill Projection | ✅ | TNEB slab-based calculation |
| Insights | ✅ | Top consumers + tips |
| Meter Reading | ✅ | Manual entry + variance |
| Bill Explanation | ✅ | Detailed slab breakdown |

---

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. ✅ Run `npm run seed` in Render Shell
2. ✅ Test signup flow
3. ✅ Complete setup wizard
4. ✅ Toggle appliances and verify real-time updates
5. ✅ Check billing calculations
6. ✅ Submit meter reading
7. ✅ View insights

---

**PowerSense Home is production-ready!** 🎉

All features implemented, database isolated with ps_ prefix, ready for users.

Commit message:

Fix UI layout spacing and add DATABASE_URL validation

PRODUCTION_READY.md, after:

# PowerSense Home - Production Deployment Guide

## ✅ Application Status: READY FOR DEPLOYMENT

All code is committed and pushed. Both Vercel and Render will auto-deploy.

---

## 🚀 Automatic Deployment

### Backend (Render)

**Everything happens automatically!**

On first deployment, the server will:
1. ✅ Connect to PostgreSQL database
2. ✅ Create all 8 tables with `ps_` prefix
3. ✅ Seed TNEB tariff slabs (6 pricing tiers)
4. ✅ Connect to Redis
5. ✅ Start the API server

**No manual steps required!**

**Required Render Environment Variables:**
```env
NODE_ENV=production
DATABASE_URL=postgresql://ai_mediation_db_user:3GxEODPhlgSeMDvM2heokGW6S4P2lON3@dpg-d5l1rakoud1c73e3kdeg-a.oregon-postgres.render.com/ai_mediation_db
REDIS_URL=redis://red-d5li359r0fns73eb4na0:6379
CLIENT_URL=https://eb-bill-virid.vercel.app
JWT_SECRET=PowerSense2024SecretKey123!
JWT_EXPIRES_IN=7d
```

### Frontend (Vercel)

Automatic deployment. No manual steps needed.

---

## 🗄️ Database Tables (with ps_ prefix)

All tables are prefixed to avoid conflicts with your other project:

- `ps_users` - User authentication
- `ps_homes` - Home configurations
- `ps_rooms` - Room details
- `ps_appliances` - Appliance instances
- `ps_appliance_usage_logs` - Usage tracking
- `ps_meter_readings` - Manual meter readings
- `ps_billing_cycles` - Billing periods
- `ps_tariff_slabs` - TNEB pricing (6 slabs)

---

## 🧪 Test the Application

### 1. Test Backend Health
```bash
curl https://eb-bill-lkcc.onrender.com
```

Expected response:
```json
{
  "message": "PowerSense Home API",
  "status": "running",
  "version": "1.0.0"
}
```

### 2. Test Frontend
Visit: https://eb-bill-virid.vercel.app

### 3. Complete User Flow
1. **Sign Up** (email + password)
2. **Setup Wizard** (3 steps: home → rooms → appliances)
3. **Dashboard** (toggle appliances, see live stats)
4. **Insights** (top consumers, recommendations)
5. **Meter Reading** (submit reading, view history)
6. **Bill Breakdown** (slab-wise calculation)

---

## 🔧 Troubleshooting

### If Backend Shows Error
**Check logs in Render:**
- Database connection: Verify `DATABASE_URL` is complete
- Redis connection: Verify `REDIS_URL` is correct
- CORS: Verify `CLIENT_URL` matches Vercel URL

### If Tables Don't Exist
Run the seed script:
```bash
npm run seed
```

### If Frontend Can't Connect
- Check `VITE_API_URL` in Vercel environment variables
- Should be: `https://eb-bill-lkcc.onrender.com`

---

## 📊 Features Overview

| Feature | Status | Description |
|---------|--------|-------------|
| Authentication | ✅ | Email/password with JWT|
| Setup Wizard | ✅ | 3-step home configuration |
| Real-Time Dashboard | ✅ | Live stats, appliance controls |
| Consumption Tracking | ✅ | Auto-calculates from toggles |
| Bill Projection | ✅ | TNEB slab-based calculation |
| Insights | ✅ | Top consumers + tips |
| Meter Reading | ✅ | Manual entry + variance |
| Bill Explanation | ✅ | Detailed slab breakdown |

---

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. ✅ Run `npm run seed` in Render Shell
2. ✅ Test signup flow
3. ✅ Complete setup wizard
4. ✅ Toggle appliances and verify real-time updates
5. ✅ Check billing calculations
6. ✅ Submit meter reading
7. ✅ View insights

---

**PowerSense Home is production-ready!** 🎉

All features implemented, database isolated with ps_ prefix, ready for users.
